Compression is a supply chain strategy
that employs the elimination of levels
or echelons in the supply chain.
Large inventories may be reduced
by applying compression initiatives.
The private sector has successfully increased service
and decreased costs by using compression.
Initiatives that help accomplish compression
include implementing vendor-managed inventory or VMI,
substituting cross-docking operations
for traditional warehousing operations,
and contracting for vendors
to deliver directly to customers.
This is also known as Prime Vendor in government.
Additionally, PBL contracts are often a mechanism
for reducing layers in the supply chain.
Rather than storing material for later picking,
cross-docking operations consolidate incoming shipments
in staging areas for delivery to specific customers.
This process speeds the flow of material
and reduces inventory storage.